README.md, before:

# Schantz Challenge 2017

Like last year, Schantz A/S is holding a code golf competition. This
repository contains my research notes, failed attempts, experiments,
as well as the 2 programs that won first place in each of the 2
categories.

Challenge: Write the shortest possible program that outputs the yearly
reserves for Santa’s pension until he has enough to retire and buy the
island of Kiatak (> 1.000.000 DKK).

The exact rules are described in the [LinkedIn
announcement](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/schantz-new-years-coding-challenge-2017-espen-højsgaard).

There are 2 categories:

 - Category 1: Only C# and Java are allowed

 - Category 2: Anything goes, except languages invented for this challenge.

## Give it to me straight, doc!

Ok, ok. I get it, you want to cut to the chase. The 2 winning entries are:

 - Category 1: [2017-19.cs](2017-19.cs) (66 characeters)

![2017-19.cs text](2017-19.png)

 - Category 2: [2017-17.gs2s](2017-17.gs2s) (assembles to `2017-17.gs2`) (33 characeters)

![2017-17.gs2s text](2017-17.png)

## Tools of the trade

### Checking

Checking the validity of the work is important. To this end, I made an
improved validation tool, that not only validates correctness, but
also displays deviation from the reference solution.

To run a check on a solution, run `make checkXX`, for example `make
check17` or `make check19` to check the winning entries.

### Size calculation

Type `make size` to see an overview of all sizes, like so:

```
2017-08.cs     :    153 total,     77 whitespace,     76 non-whitespace:     78 characters (minified)
2017-09.gs2    :     39 total,      0 whitespace,     39 non-whitespace:     39 bytes (binary)
...
2017-16.gs2    :     39 total,      0 whitespace,     39 non-whitespace:     39 bytes (binary)
2017-17.gs2    :     33 total,      0 whitespace,     33 non-whitespace:     33 bytes (binary)
2017-18.java   :    101 total,     37 whitespace,     64 non-whitespace:     65 characters (minified)
2017-19.cs     :     81 total,     17 whitespace,     64 non-whitespace:     66 characters (minified)
2017-20.jshell :     97 total,     16 whitespace,     81 non-whitespace:     83 characters (minified)
2017-21.py     :     89 total,      0 whitespace,     89 non-whitespace:     89 chars (raw text)
...
```

Type `make checkXX` to see the size of a specific entry.

## I demand an explanation

Sorry Mario, but the explanation is in another castle!

.. check back later for more details!

(if you are really interested, the git commit messages should be quite
descriptive!)

Commit message:

+ Added link to presentation from the source repos

README.md, after:

# Schantz Challenge 2017

Like last year, Schantz A/S is holding a code golf competition. This
repository contains my research notes, failed attempts, experiments,
as well as the 2 programs that won first place in each of the 2
categories.

Challenge: Write the shortest possible program that outputs the yearly
reserves for Santa’s pension until he has enough to retire and buy the
island of Kiatak (> 1.000.000 DKK).

The exact rules are described in the [LinkedIn
announcement](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/schantz-new-years-coding-challenge-2017-espen-højsgaard).

There are 2 categories:

 - Category 1: Only C# and Java are allowed

 - Category 2: Anything goes, except languages invented for this challenge.

## Give it to me straight, doc!

Ok, ok. I get it, you want to cut to the chase. The 2 winning entries are:

 - Category 1: [2017-19.cs](2017-19.cs) (66 characeters)

![2017-19.cs text](2017-19.png)

 - Category 2: [2017-17.gs2s](2017-17.gs2s) (assembles to `2017-17.gs2`) (33 characeters)

![2017-17.gs2s text](2017-17.png)

## I demand an explanation!

You're in luck! My [presentation from the prize
ceremony](https://chrivers.github.io/schantz-2017-presentation/index.html)
is online! Just press "f" for full screen, and Space for next
slide.

And the source code for the presentation is [also on
github](https://github.com/chrivers/schantz-2017-presentation).

## Tools of the trade

### Checking

Checking the validity of the work is important. To this end, I made an
improved validation tool, that not only validates correctness, but
also displays deviation from the reference solution.

To run a check on a solution, run `make checkXX`, for example `make
check17` or `make check19` to check the winning entries.

### Size calculation

Type `make size` to see an overview of all sizes, like so:

```
2017-08.cs     :    153 total,     77 whitespace,     76 non-whitespace:     78 characters (minified)
2017-09.gs2    :     39 total,      0 whitespace,     39 non-whitespace:     39 bytes (binary)
...
2017-16.gs2    :     39 total,      0 whitespace,     39 non-whitespace:     39 bytes (binary)
2017-17.gs2    :     33 total,      0 whitespace,     33 non-whitespace:     33 bytes (binary)
2017-18.java   :    101 total,     37 whitespace,     64 non-whitespace:     65 characters (minified)
2017-19.cs     :     81 total,     17 whitespace,     64 non-whitespace:     66 characters (minified)
2017-20.jshell :     97 total,     16 whitespace,     81 non-whitespace:     83 characters (minified)
2017-21.py     :     89 total,      0 whitespace,     89 non-whitespace:     89 chars (raw text)
...
```

Type `make checkXX` to see the size of a specific entry.
